  This board was designed by William Laney as part of the College of William and Mary's physics REU program, 2016. Questions or concerns can be directed to William Laney (welaney@email.wm.edu).

  This is a breakout board for the L3GD20H IC. The L3GD20H is a 3-axis gyroscope with the capability to output data through both SPI and I2C interfaces. This breakout board only alows the L3GD20H to communicate using I2C, SPI has been disabled. For more information on this, please view the L3GD20H data sheet. The I2C address for this chip is 0x6B in hex (0b1101011 in binary).

  The board is designed to be stackable with the Sparkfun MMA8452 breakout board. To allow for this functionality, two unused header pin holes have been added between the SCL and ground pins. 

There are two pours on this design. The bottom layer of the board has a ground pour, and the perimeter of the top layer has a VCC pour. I belive this VCC pour was a mistake. It can lead to interference problems, and capacitance problems. Furthermore, the amount of current flowing through the board does not require the amount of copper the VCC pour provides. The VCC pour should be removed in version two of the design.

Printed on the board's silk screen are labeled arrows corresponding to the positive direction of rotation for each axis. These arrows show the direction towards which the board must rotate to register a positive rotation on a given axis.

All traces on this board are 0.01" and the vias have 0.02" drill holes. This is more than sufficient to handle the current through the traces. Right angles in the trace are avoid to help ensure data integrity.

Decoupling capacitors have added as near to the chip as possible to minimze noise to the chip. This is detailed in the data sheet.

The large white dot on the silkscreen directly next to the chip corresponds to a dot on the same location on the physical chip package, and assures that the chip is attached to the board with the proper orientation.

0805 package size are used for all passive components. This size was selected because I believe it to be a good compromise between size and ease of placement.

On June 17 2016, six v1 boards were ordered form OSHpark for $3.70. This corresponds to $0.61 per board. Four of these boards were assembled and two were found to be fully functional. It is believed that the two non-functioning boards were due to assembling error, not design error.
