This board was desgined by William Laney as part of the College of William and Mary's physics REU programe, 2016. 
Questions or concerns can be directed at William Laney at welaney@email.wm.edu

This is a breakout board for the MMA84520 IC (3-axis accelorometer), L3GD20H IC (3-axis gyroscope), and Transflash micro SD (uSD) reader. This board can be viewed as a shield for an 3.3V Arduino Pro Mini as it can stack ontop of the pro mini. Both the MMA84520 and L3GD20H communicate using I2C protoical. All non I2C funcunality of both of these chips is not enabled. This includes interups from the chips and the SPI functunality of the L3GD20H. 

The I2C address for the L3GD20H IC is 0X6B in hex, which corosbonds to 1101011b. The I2C address for the MMA84520 is 0X1C in hex, which corosbonds to 00011100b.

The uSD reader is connected through SPI. The chip select pin is 10.

Most pins holes on the board are not connected and are there to provide stacking functionality with the Arduino Pro Mini. The only wholes that are in use are the ones labled on the silk screen. Please note this means pins that are in use on either this board or the layer two board. 

The printed arrows on the silk screen corospones directly to the orinitation of the accerometer. The gyrscope is orinented as to corropond to these axis in the expected way.

The large white dots on the silkscreen directly next to the chips corosponds to a dot on the same location on the physical chip packages and assures that the chip is attached to the board in the proper orintation. The outline of the uSD reader on the silk screen is used for orintation of the uSD reader.

All traces on this board are 0.01" and the vias have 0.02" drill holes. This is more than sufficent to handle the current through the traces. Right angles in the trace are avoid to help ensure data intgrety.

The bottom layer of this board contains a ground pour. There is not ground pour on the top layer of the board because there are to many leads to make a useful pour. The bottom layer ground pour is set to attach to both of the ground pins on the Arduino Pro Min.

No vias were placed under the uSD reader to preven accedtial ground connections when the uSD card is inserted.

Decoupling capcitors have added as near to the chips as possible to minimze noise to the chips. This is detailed in the relavent data sheets.

0805 package size are used for all passive compnets. This size was selected because I belive it so be a good compromise between size and ease of placment.

On July 7 2016 six v1 boards were ordered from OSHpark for $14.10. This coropondes to $2.35 per board.